---
# For reference on model card metadata, see the spec: https://github.com/huggingface/hub-docs/blob/main/modelcard.md?plain=1
# Doc / guide: https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/model-cards
{ { card_data } }
---

---

language:

- "List of ISO 639-1 code for your language"
- lang1
- lang2

thumbnail: "url to a thumbnail used in social sharing"

tags:

- tag1
- tag2

license: CC BY-SA

datasets:

- dataset1
- dataset2

metrics:

- metric1
- metric2

---

# Model Card for joelito/legal-swiss-roberta-base

<!-- Provide a quick summary of what the model is/does. -->

This model was pretrained on [Multi Legal Pile](https://huggingface.co/datasets/joelito/Multi_Legal_Pile) ([Niklaus et al. 2023](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.02069?utm_source=tldrai)).

Our pretraining procedure includes the following key steps:

(a) Warm-starting: We initialize our models from the original XLM-R checkpoints of Conneau et al. (2019) to benefit from a well-trained base.

(b) Tokenization: We train a new tokenizer of 128K BPEs to cover legal language better. However, we reuse the original XLM-R embeddings for lexically overlapping tokens and use random embeddings for the rest.

(c) Pretraining: We continue pretraining on Multi Legal Pile with batches of 512 samples for an additional 1M/500K steps for the base/large model. We use warm-up steps, a linearly increasing learning rate, and cosine decay scheduling. During the warm-up phase, only the embeddings are updated, and a higher masking rate and percentage of predictions based on masked tokens are used compared to Devlin et al. (2019).

(d) Sentence Sampling: We employ a sentence sampler with exponential smoothing to handle disparate token proportions across cantons and languages, preserving per-canton and language capacity.

(e) Mixed Cased Models: Our models cover both upper- and lowercase letters, similar to recently developed large PLMs.

(f) Long Context Training: To account for long contexts in legal documents, we train the base-size multilingual model on long contexts with windowed attention. This variant, named Legal-Swiss-LF-base, uses a 15% masking probability, increased learning rate, and similar settings to small-context models.

## Model Details

### Model Description

<!-- Provide a longer summary of what this model is. -->

{{ model_description | default("", true) }}

- **Developed by:** [Joel Niklaus](mailto:joel.niklaus.2@bfh.ch)
- **Model type:** Transformer-based language model (RoBERTa)
- **Language(s) (NLP):** en, pt, de, es, fr, it, cs, pl, ro, da, nl, el, sv, sk, sl, hu, bg, fi, et, mt, lt, lv, hr, ga
- **License:** CC BY-SA
<!-- - **Finetuned from model [optional]:** {{ finetuned_from | default("[More Information Needed]", true)}} -->

<!--
### Model Sources [optional]

- **Repository:** {{ repo | default("[More Information Needed]", true)}}
- **Paper [optional]:** {{ paper | default("[More Information Needed]", true)}}
- **Demo [optional]:** {{ demo | default("[More Information Needed]", true)}} -->

## Uses

<!-- Address questions around how the model is intended to be used, including the foreseeable users of the model and those affected by the model. -->

### Direct Use and Downstream Use

You can use the raw model for either masked language modeling or next sentence prediction, but it's mostly intended to be fine-tuned on a downstream task.

Note that this model is primarily aimed at being fine-tuned on tasks that use the whole sentence (potentially masked) to make decisions, such as sequence classification, token classification or question answering. For tasks such as text generation you should look at model like GPT2.

### Out-of-Scope Use

For tasks such as text generation you should look at model like GPT2.

The model should not be used to intentionally create hostile or alienating environments for people. The model was not trained to be factual or true representations of people or events, and therefore using the models to generate such content is out-of-scope for the abilities of this model.

## Bias, Risks, and Limitations

Significant research has explored bias and fairness issues with language models (see, e.g., [Sheng et al. (2021)](https://aclanthology.org/2021.acl-long.330.pdf) and [Bender et al. (2021)](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3442188.3445922)). Predictions generated by the model may include disturbing and harmful stereotypes across protected classes; identity characteristics; and sensitive, social, and occupational groups.

### Recommendations

Users (both direct and downstream) should be made aware of the risks, biases and limitations of the model. More information needed for further recommendations.", true

## How to Get Started with the Model

See [huggingface tutorials](https://huggingface.co/learn/nlp-course/chapter7/1?fw=pt). For masked word filling see [this tutorial](https://huggingface.co/tasks/fill-mask).

## Training Details

This model was pretrained on [Multi Legal Pile](https://huggingface.co/datasets/joelito/Multi_Legal_Pile) ([Niklaus et al. 2023](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.02069?utm_source=tldrai)).

Our pretraining procedure includes the following key steps:

(a) Warm-starting: We initialize our models from the original XLM-R checkpoints of Conneau et al. (2019) to benefit from a well-trained base.

(b) Tokenization: We train a new tokenizer of 128K BPEs to cover legal language better. However, we reuse the original XLM-R embeddings for lexically overlapping tokens and use random embeddings for the rest.

(c) Pretraining: We continue pretraining on Multi Legal Pile with batches of 512 samples for an additional 1M/500K steps for the base/large model. We use warm-up steps, a linearly increasing learning rate, and cosine decay scheduling. During the warm-up phase, only the embeddings are updated, and a higher masking rate and percentage of predictions based on masked tokens are used compared to Devlin et al. (2019).

(d) Sentence Sampling: We employ a sentence sampler with exponential smoothing to handle disparate token proportions across cantons and languages, preserving per-canton and language capacity.

(e) Mixed Cased Models: Our models cover both upper- and lowercase letters, similar to recently developed large PLMs.

(f) Long Context Training: To account for long contexts in legal documents, we train the base-size multilingual model on long contexts with windowed attention. This variant, named Legal-Swiss-LF-base, uses a 15% masking probability, increased learning rate, and similar settings to small-context models.

### Training Data

This model was pretrained on [Multi Legal Pile](https://huggingface.co/datasets/joelito/Multi_Legal_Pile) ([Niklaus et al. 2023](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.02069?utm_source=tldrai)).

#### Preprocessing

For further details see [Niklaus et al. 2023](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.02069?utm_source=tldrai)

#### Training Hyperparameters

- batche size: 512 samples
- Number of steps: 1M/500K for the base/large model
- Warm-up steps for the first 5\% of the total training steps
- Learning rate: (linearly increasing up to) $1e\!-\!4$
- Word masking: increased 20/30\% masking rate for base/large models respectively

## Evaluation

[More Information Needed]

### Testing Data, Factors & Metrics

[More Information Needed]

#### Testing Data

[More Information Needed]

#### Factors

<!-- These are the things the evaluation is disaggregating by, e.g., subpopulations or domains. -->

[More Information Needed]

#### Metrics

[More Information Needed]

### Results

[More Information Needed]

#### Summary

[More Information Needed]

## Environmental Impact

<!-- Total emissions (in grams of CO2eq) and additional considerations, such as electricity usage, go here. Edit the suggested text below accordingly -->

Carbon emissions can be estimated using the [Machine Learning Impact calculator](https://mlco2.github.io/impact#compute) presented in [Lacoste et al. (2019)](https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.09700).

- **Hardware Type:** {{ hardware | default("[More Information Needed]", true)}}
- **Hours used:** {{ hours_used | default("[More Information Needed]", true)}}
- **Cloud Provider:** {{ cloud_provider | default("[More Information Needed]", true)}}
- **Compute Region:** {{ cloud_region | default("[More Information Needed]", true)}}
- **Carbon Emitted:** {{ co2_emitted | default("[More Information Needed]", true)}}

### Model Architecture and Objective

{{ model_specs | default("[More Information Needed]", true)}}

### Compute Infrastructure

Googöe TPU.

#### Hardware

Googöe TPU.

#### Software

pytorch, transformers.

## Citation [optional]

```

@article{Niklaus2023MultiLegalPileA6,
  title={MultiLegalPile: A 689GB Multilingual Legal Corpus},
  author={Joel Niklaus and Veton Matoshi and Matthias Sturmer and Ilias Chalkidis and Daniel E. Ho},
  journal={ArXiv},
  year={2023},
  volume={abs/2306.02069}
}

@inproceedings{NEURIPS2019_c04c19c2,
author = {CONNEAU, Alexis and Lample, Guillaume},
booktitle = {Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems},
editor = {Wallach, H and Larochelle, H and Beygelzimer, A and d\textquotesingle Alch{\'{e}}-Buc, F and Fox, E and Garnett, R},
file = {:Users/vetonmatoshi/Library/Application Support/Mendeley Desktop/Downloaded/CONNEAU, Lample - 2019 - Cross-lingual Language Model Pretraining.pdf:pdf},
publisher = {Curran Associates, Inc.},
title = {{Cross-lingual Language Model Pretraining}},
url = {https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2019/file/c04c19c2c2474dbf5f7ac4372c5b9af1-Paper.pdf},
volume = {32},
year = {2019}
}

@inproceedings{devlin-etal-2019-bert,
address = {Minneapolis, Minnesota},
author = {Devlin, Jacob and Chang, Ming-Wei and Lee, Kenton and Toutanova, Kristina},
booktitle = {Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North {A}merican Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers)},
doi = {10.18653/v1/N19-1423},
month = {jun},
pages = {4171--4186},
publisher = {Association for Computational Linguistics},
title = {{BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding}},
url = {https://aclanthology.org/N19-1423},
year = {2019}
}

```

**BibTeX:**

{{ citation_bibtex | default("[More Information Needed]", true)}}

**APA:**

{{ citation_apa | default("[More Information Needed]", true)}}

{{ glossary | default("[More Information Needed]", true)}}

## Model Card Authors

Joel Niklaus: [huggingface](https://huggingface.co/joelito); [email](mailto:joel.niklaus.2@bfh.ch)

Veton Matoshi: [huggingface](https://huggingface.co/kapllan); [email](mailto:msv3@bfh.ch)

## Model Card Contact

Joel Niklaus: [huggingface](https://huggingface.co/joelito); [email](mailto:joel.niklaus.2@bfh.ch)

Veton Matoshi: [huggingface](https://huggingface.co/kapllan); [email](mailto:msv3@bfh.ch)
